README.md, before:

# eve-ros2-examples

A ROS2 package full of C++ examples that show the usage of all of EVE's ROS2 API

## Setup
Follow the install instructions [here](https://github.com/Halodi/halodi-controller-simulation-api) to setup your EVE ROS2 workspace. Then, clone this repo into your eve_ws/src folder
and build again to start using the examples
```bash
cd ~/eve_ws/src
git clone https://github.com/Halodi/eve-ros2-examples.git
cd ~/eve_ws
colcon build
. install/setup.bash
```
Then launch the gazebo sim of EVE. 
```bash
ros2 launch halodi-controller-gazebo halodi-controller-gazebo.launch.py
```

Once it's running, open a different terminal and try the different commands for the different examples below.

## Driving Command Example
This example makes EVE drive in a circle using the DrivingCommand ROS2 Message. Run the example using the following:
```bash
ros2 run eve-ros2-examples drive_command_publisher
```
You can find the code for this example in [drive_command_publisher.cpp](./src/drive_command_publisher.cpp)

## Wholebody Trajectory Example
This example makes EVE move her right hand in a 5 point trajectory using the WholeBody trajectory ROS2 Message. Run the example using the following:
```bash
ros2 run eve-ros2-examples whole_body_trajectory_publisher
```
You can find the code for this example in [whole_body_trajectory_publisher.cpp](./src/whole_body_trajectory_publisher.cpp)

Commit message:

added example for waving right hand, yet to write documentation

README.md, after:

# eve-ros2-examples

A ROS2 package full of C++ examples that show the usage of all of EVE's ROS2 API

## Setup
Follow the install instructions [here](https://github.com/Halodi/halodi-controller-simulation-api) to setup your EVE ROS2 workspace. Then, clone this repo into your eve_ws/src folder
and build again to start using the examples
```bash
cd ~/eve_ws/src
git clone https://github.com/Halodi/eve-ros2-examples.git
cd ~/eve_ws
colcon build
. install/setup.bash
```
Then launch the gazebo sim of EVE. 
```bash
ros2 launch halodi-controller-gazebo halodi-controller-gazebo.launch.py
```

Once it's running, open a different terminal and try the different commands for the different examples below.

## Example structure
The EVE ROS2 API is essentially just the construction and publishing of our custom generated ROS2 message types found [here](https://github.com/Halodi/halodi-messages). To do this you must create a ROS2 node and publish a desired trajectory msg to the relevant topic. We illustrate the procedure for this in the examples present here, with the aim of exploring the API to its full extent. 

We use the simplest template of a ROS2 node, an explanation for which can be found [here](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Tutorials/Writing-A-Simple-Cpp-Publisher-And-Subscriber/). Although given the simplicity, you should have few problems following this tutorial if you come from a ROS1 only background.

## Waving the hand
This example makes EVE move her right hand in a 5 point trajectory using the WholeBody trajectory ROS2 Message.

The WholeBodyTrajectory msg is composed of a sequence of WholeBodyTrajectoryPoint(s) (5 in this case). Each WholeBodyTrajectoryPoint can be composed of desired task space commands, eg. desired end-effector positions, and/or desired joint space commands, eg. arm or leg joint angles, along with a desired time duration to get there. 

This examples results in EVE waving her right hand via a sequence of joint space commands. 

 Run the example using the following:
```bash
ros2 run eve-ros2-examples whole_body_trajectory_publisher
```
You can find the code for this example in [whole_body_trajectory_publisher.cpp](./src/whole_body_trajectory_publisher.cpp)


## Driving Command Example
This example makes EVE drive in a circle using the DrivingCommand ROS2 Message. Run the example using the following:
```bash
ros2 run eve-ros2-examples drive_command_publisher
```
You can find the code for this example in [drive_command_publisher.cpp](./src/drive_command_publisher.cpp)

## Wholebody Trajectory Example
This example makes EVE move her right hand in a 5 point trajectory using the WholeBody trajectory ROS2 Message. Run the example using the following:
```bash
ros2 run eve-ros2-examples whole_body_trajectory_publisher
```
You can find the code for this example in [whole_body_trajectory_publisher.cpp](./src/whole_body_trajectory_publisher.cpp)
